Problems I Faced Earlier

Exact Keyword Matching Only

The chatbot only works if the user types the keyword exactly as stored, e.g. "Optimal Chlorine".

If the user types "optimale chlorine", "optimum chlorine", "chlorine optimal", or "good chlorine", it fails.

This is not user-friendly because people type variations.

Region Detection Fails

If the user asks "optimal chlorine in Nagpur", the chatbot ignores "Nagpur" and always returns results from all regions.

Same happens for "below 55 LPCD in Chandrapur" or "consistent water in Pune".

It cannot correctly detect region names inside a query.

Scheme Detection Fails

If the user asks "optimal chlorine in scheme 1234", the chatbot doesn’t detect scheme IDs.

If the user asks "optimal chlorine in 105 Villages RRWS", it fails unless the scheme name is typed exactly as stored.

Users might type "105 RRWS villages" or "rrws 105 villages" → chatbot should still detect the scheme.

Database Dependency

Schemes and regions are stored in the database, not hardcoded.

I don’t want to update the chatbot manually whenever new schemes or regions are added.

The NLP service should be able to use the latest list of schemes/regions (fetched dynamically or passed in).

Scalability of Queries

Right now, queries are very strict.

Users should be able to ask naturally, like:

"Which schemes in Nagpur have good chlorine levels?"

"Show me schemes below 55 LPCD in scheme 9876"

"Schemes in Chandrapur with consistent water supply"

The chatbot should still map these correctly to the right keyword + scope.

✅ What I Want You to Build

A Python NLP service (FastAPI preferred) that:

Uses fuzzy keyword detection to match against a fixed set of categories:

Villages with Water

Villages No Water

Consistent Water

Consistent Zero

Above 55 LPCD

Below 55 LPCD

Consistent Above 55

Consistent Below 55

Optimal Chlorine

Below Chlorine

Above Chlorine

Optimal Pressure

Below Pressure

Above Pressure

Detects region names inside the user’s query.

Detects scheme IDs (numeric) and scheme names (fuzzy match, not exact).

Returns a structured JSON response like this:

{
  "keyword": "Optimal Chlorine",
  "scopeType": "region",
  "scopeValue": "Nagpur"
}


or

{
  "keyword": "Below 55 LPCD",
  "scopeType": "scheme",
  "scopeValue": {
    "id": "1234",
    "name": "105 Villages RRWS"
  }
}


If no region or scheme is detected, default to:

{
  "keyword": "Optimal Chlorine",
  "scopeType": "all"
}


The service should be easy to call from my React frontend via an API endpoint, e.g. /parse.